# Week 05 - Tuesday
5 February 2024

## Web Front-End - Morning Session

### First Hour

#### Join our AWS Organization

To avoid getting billed by AWS's obscure pricing policies, give your AWS email address to the teaching staff, and they'll invite you to join our class AWS organization. We'll also help check your AWS setup.

#### Check on your Postgres

How can you get deeper insight, or just even a basic sanity check, that you are writing into your Postgres?

This is not technically front-end, but for those of you in web infra, here's what you can run on your AWS server to 
#### Develop locally, deploy globally

When developing both your backend (`server.js`) and your front-end (HTML/CSS/JS or React), you should do this on your laptop, GitPod, or GitHub Codespaces, and test it via `localhost`. It is not recommended to develop this actively on your AWS server, you should only deploy it there when it's tested and ready to serve public users.

Here are a few reasons
* You can use VSCode and other sophisticated IDEs and editors on your laptop / GitPod / GitHub Codespaces, with autocomplete, syntax coloring, linting, autoformatting, and other plugins. Your AWS server can pretty much only handle `nano`, `vim`, and other command-line text editors.
* Only you are using your code on localhost, so you don't have to worry about interference from public users or your teammates, and vice versa.
* Your AWS server needs extra / duplicate setup to commit and push your changes to git, like an SSH keypair, setting `.gitconfig` email address and username, and more.
* Your AWS server is meant to be expendable and re-deployable on a moment's notice, e.g. in case it gets hacked or corrupted. We haven't been exercising the best devops hygiene so far in this class, so we are attempting to correct this now.

It requires some setup though.

#### SSH Tunnel to your Database
It's not easy or recommended to 

Connect your HTML login form (we're actually using it as a Register Form) to your backend POST handler.

### Second Hour

Receive back a userflow and wireframe diagram from the previous Thursday, drawn by someone other than yourself. (Don't pick your diagram back).

Find a pair programming partner and do the following activity. Create an directory for it in your assignments directory, on your laptop / GitPod / GitHub Codespace. (Not your AWS server)

```
cd <REPO_DIR>/web-24wi/assignments/<GITHUB_USERNAME>/frontend
mkdir week5
cd week5
```

* Make a skeleton HTML / CSS / JS static website (Lap 1) or a skeleton React app (Lap 2)
	implementing one of the wireframes, or a pagetype in the userflow diagram with sufficient detail. Timebox yourself to spend 30 minutes to get the main `div`'s and a few big features right (like a logo).
	* Avoid going to the original website that it is based on. Try to go only on the drawing.
	* Collect at least 5 questions, or details that you wish you could ask the diagram author, as you're working. Write these into a README.md 
	* The goal of this exercise is to help guide you in drawing your own final project userflow and wireframe in [Final-Project-05](Final-Project-05.md)
* Draw up a schema of the data that is represented by this website.
	* Use the Entity Relationship diagram that we learned from [2024-02-05](2024-02-05.md)
	* You should aim to have at least 3 different tables, with at least one relation with a foreign key.
	* The goal of this exercise is to help guide you in drawing up a database schema for your final project.
	* Add to your README.md markdown file in this directory and draw your ER diagram using Mermaid.
		* [MermaidJS syntax for Entity Relationship Diagrams](https://mermaid.js.org/syntax/entityRelationshipDiagram.html)
		* [An explanation of Entity Relationship Diagrams from LucidCharts](https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/er-diagrams)