# Week 3
10 October 2023

## Course Notes
Trinity please type here for the first hour:
A computational resources:
1)Memory(Space) 2)Time

Many Algorithms will use different scales depending on what is more efficient.

Question that was asked in Zoom (Jonah Eadie):
Is it also because those statistics will vary across different systems? Where a metric like algorithmic complexity is agnostic to the underlying hardware

Hardware is constantly updating, for example processors, and there may be changes... but the overall learning of algorithms is the same. It is a constant. Or will also imporve at a constant rate.

Orders of Growth (Hiearchy of Functions) that is more efficient than Linear, is called *______* (Too Quiet to Hear this Portion, feel free to fill in the blanks :) )
If one of your algorithms run at an extreme during a function, that usually isn't good. You want steady change, aka aim for the middle, or the constant.
Constant time takes the same amount of time, no matter how many objects. Doesn't scale with the amount of data.

dxxyoungblood (Feel free to correct, couldn't quite hear): Am I thinking about it backwards? Thinking that Exponential functions are more efficient, but Quinn (aqqmin) clarified getting it closer to the constant time is better. In short, lower is better. Constant time is not dependent on the amount of nodes or data.
Simplified explaination of Constant: Having the same running time no matter how big the input grows. 
If resource use, we want constant.
If more data, modest increase, use exponential.

End Of First Hour
----------------------


Class is on discord so each individual classmate can share their screens with others.
Beginning with size() method for LinkedListWrapper<T>, create a private int called currentSize
Devin is sharing screen. Devin, Alena, and Torston add the line

  List.currentSize;

into the size() method. toArray and isEmpty(?) are also updated.
Nathanmcl (discord name) begins sharing his screen. 
(10:40) Changes are pushed to monorepo.
List.currentSize(); is changed to return this.currentSize; and the line return 0; is removed
mvn is run, build has some syntax and logic errors
remove method for ArrayWrapper is discussed, errors at line 78
ArrayWrapper is commented out for the moment in order to focus on LinkedLIstWrapper.
contains() method is examined (lines 32-37), line 35 is modified to change size to currentsize into for loop
Paul reiterates the need to get rid of unneccesary branches after they are merged
(2:02) isEmpty in LLW added to

  return currentSize == 0;

contains method is examined. Class is asked about node class/member variables.
We don't want to have to keep track of the head and tail all of the time.

  private Node tail;

added by Nathan to LLW. 
Node objects must be declared for LinkedListWrapper functionality. Nodes (head/tail) can be assigned to "current" node
ChatGPT is used to help explain the details of implementing nodes. Class is reminded to be nice to the AI (Roko's basilisk)
A line for a current node is added to LLW.
With the "contains" method, the current node can be assigned to the head variable to begin parsing through LLW
(2:31) changes are merged, Torston begins sharing screen.
Node class is to be worked on, contains is still to be worked on as well. ChatGPT is asked how to best implement.
A while loop is added to the method. The loop checks the current node, if the node contains the disered object, then true is returned, otherwise current = next
Class break into groups.





