# Week 1 - Day 2
Thursday, 2023 Sep 26

[Edit this Page on GitHub](https://github.com/TheEvergreenStateCollege/upper-division-cs/edit/main/dsa-23au/notes/docs/week-01/2023-09-28.md)

[CTF Event announcement at 11am](2023-09-26-ctf-event.md)

## Arrays and Links Homework
(Due by next Wednesday, 3pm)
(45 minutes in class)

* With a pair programming partner, in GitPod or your favorite development environment
* Create a branch containing your usernames and `array-links` somewhere.
* Change to `dsa-23au/java-dsa/array-links/src/main/resources` 
* Export your dataset spreadsheet from above to a CSV file. Add this to the monorepo in the directory above.
* Divide up in the class the methods of the `java.util.List` interface.
* Implement your methods with a partner in interface.
* Write some unit tests in `dsa-23au/java-dsa/array-links/src/test`, commit and push.
* Compile it into a JAR with `mvn package`
* Run unit tests with `mvn test`
* Create a pull-request from your branch and request a review from someone else in the class who hasn't already been requested.
* Review the PR that one of your class mates has requested that you do.
* Both reviewer and reviewee exchange feedback until it is ready to marge.
* Merge the PR and close it.

## Housekeeping
(15 minutes)

* Reading assignment.
* Head TA: Winston Shine, other TAs / tutors to follow
* Where else to get help: open a GitHub issue, email / canvas DM any of your pair programming partners, email / canvas DM me or Richard, ChatGPT (demo), google search
* Fill out [Survey of Best Times for Lab Help](LabHelpSurvey.md)
* Final Projects 
* Ask students to accept their GitHub invites to be maintainers of the monorepos
  * Create a pull request and merge any remaining differences from their private forked repos to monorepo
  * Delete their private forked repo.
* Check canvas sections
* Pair with someone different from last time.

## Practice Markdown Co-Creation
(20 minutes to get started)

* Create a branch for your programming pair called `<username1>-<username2>`
  * All the new files below, you'll save in the `dsa-23au/notes/docs/chapter-01` directory
* Write five sentences about Changemakers and how to apply it to Data Structures and Algorithms
  * Suggestion: How can we apply or how have you been practicing these Changemaker concepts in the context of DSA?
* Make one correction that you remember to the [SoftwareSetup](../SoftwareSetup.md)
  * Suggestion: Check [GitHub Issues]
* While you have not merged all branches into a single `2023-09-26-Changemakers.md` file on `main` branch
  * Create a PR for your branch, and ask one other classmate to review it who is only reviewing at most one other PR.
  * At most two other classmates will request that you review their PRs. Do so by
    * Creating a new branch `<username1>-<username2>-<username3>-<username4>`
    * Reviewers and reviewees converse back and forth using GitHub discussion threads and in-person.
    * Reviewee can make changes as requested, or reviewer can make them directly and commit to branch.
    * When both parties agree change is ready, they merge the two branches to a n 

## Fundamental Principle of DSA
(10 minutes)

Let's keep working on an expression of our fundamental blah of Data Structures & Algorithms.
We want to apply it to a simple example:

  * A sorted list of integers
  * Reversing a linked list

## Add to Datasets
(20 minutes)

* Start a dataset based on something meaningful to you and record it in a spreadsheet.
* Add a link to your dataset below.
* Collaborate with your partners to add more rows until you have about 20.
* 

## Pair Programming 
(20 minutes)

* Distribute printed out pages from this reading [On Pair Programming](https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html).
* Ask students in pairs to read their pages and summarize 5 important points, and write it in a new MD file
  named `MERGE-ME-2023-09-28-<username1>-<username2>`
* 

### Class Summary

