# Week 1 - Day 1 
## 26 September 2023

### Handouts 

On paper, because technology may not work.
Class syllabus.
Short survey of students and their background, GitHub username, goals for learning DSA.

### Faculty Introductions

Richard Weiss.
weissr@evergreen.edu

Paul Pham.
paul.pham@evergreen.edu

### Class Schedule 

For the first week, and for rest of quarter.

### Two Tracks

12 open slots for Changemakers Lab, to participate directly in Team Companies with a responsibility of Tuesday - Thursday afternoon sessions,
to come up with their own learning goals and homework, and to benefit from the revolutionary ChangeMakers approach.

Returning DSA Students get preference, open to everyone.

Remaining students will get more time for pair programming, a curated selection of homeworks designed to teach and test your programming skills
for future technical jobs, and a chance to deep dive on computer science.

You can serve as a consultant for one of the ChangeMakers team companies, applying your knowledge from the homeworks to a real-world
problem found by you or your teammates, and build a piece for your portfolio or website.

### Assignment 1 Due Friday, at 3pm on GitHub

Set up your GitPod development environment.
Become familiar with the class monorepo.
Become familiar with Markdown.
Participate in class knowledge co-creation through editing Markdown files in GitHub.

Begin collecting a dataset in a spreadsheet (Google Sheets, Excel, Numbers)
  based on your interests. Requirements
  * Must be a real application / question from your life that has your interest: walking around campus or Olympia, or your daily life, or your programming life 
  * Must have a new addition every one or two days, ideally several times per day 
  * Examples:
    * your exercise (running time), tracking any kind of personal habit, or those of your family and friends 
    *  
Learn arrays and links, implement the Create/Insert, Read/Search, Update, Delete
