# Week 3 - Day 8
12 October 2023 - Thursday

## Morning Session

### First Hour

All our various activities are to enable you:
* To be able to implement at least 4 data structures and algorithms from scratch that pass unit tests in a pair program.
* To model a problem + dataset of our choosing (ChangeMakers team project, DSA dataset, independent learning) with data structures and algorithms
  * and implement it in a language of your choosing, as part of a team or alone
* To be able to write a one-page essay about our design (modeling data) and our implementation (our code)
* To be able to sit in a 30 minute interview answering questions about your essay, project, homework solutions, and code contributions
  * in Week 5 and Week 10

In groups:
* Continue working on LinkedList and Stacks from Tuesday
* Commit code to pass unit tests

Using a Profiler
Using a Debugger

Hash Map
* Collision Strategies
  * linear chaining
  * probing
  * other ideas?

### Second Hour

Forest Walk
(Binary) Heaps

* Paper handouts

* Examples
  * Hospital triage
  * Priority mail delivery
  * Packet routing with different Quality-of-Service customers
  * Promotions within a company or an army
* The Heap Property (Invariant)
  * The parent key is less than either child keys
* A node at index i has children at 2i and 2i+1
  * and a parent at floor(i/2)

#### Assignments and Projects Reminder

* Final Project / Credit Expectations
* Week 3 Project Updates
* Reading assignment for Week 4

## Afternoon Session

### First Hour

Goal: Divide up into teams and implement the following methods.
The internal representation for each data structure is an array.

* HeapWrapper<T>
  * instance member variable of type Object called _array;
  * insert (key)
  * key <-- deleteMin
  * key <-- getMin
  * bool <-- search / contains (key)
  * bool <-- update (key)
  * int <-- size()
* HashMapWrapper<K,V>
  * instance member variable of type Object called _array
  * choose one of the collision strategies discussed in the morning
  * put (key, value)
  * value <-- get (key)
  * int <-- size()

Classify each of the methods above as C,R,U, or D.

## Three-Line Code Improv

Use the Three-Line Code Improv technique from last time.
* The teams choose a Discord voice channel room (Study Room 1, 2, or 3)
* Each team member takes turns driving, with the rest of the team helping them to navigate
* The driver starts their gitpod workspace and shares that tab with Discord screenshare
* The driver makes sure his local repo is clean and checks out his main branch.
* The driver pulls any changes from last time on main.
* The driver checks out and creates a new branch just for today, usually called <username-datastructure> where 
  * <username> is their github username
  * <datastructure> is the 
* The team discusses a plan or vision for which method to focus on next
* The team discusses three lines which are needed or can help move in the direction of their goal,
  * and can be added while still compiling (do not for any reason break the build)
  * `mvn package` should complete without errors before continuing.
* The team directs the driver to write those three lines.
* The team directs the driver to commit and push those lines to GitHub (the remote called "origin")
  * with help for composing an descriptive commit mesage.
* The team directs the driver to create a pull request.
  * another team member reviews the pull request, merges it to main, and deletes the branch

### Second Hour

[30 minutes] Periodic Table of DSA
* Continue updating your table of operations from last time (the Periodic Table, or "Bingo Card")
  * [Add your changes directly here](https://github.com/TheEvergreenStateCollege/upper-division-cs/blob/periodic-table-1/dsa-23au/PeriodicTable.md)
  * Beginning updating this markdown file: []()

[30 minutes] Data Modeling Exercise (to help with your final project)

  * You are charged with running the DMV. `n` Drivers come in and stand in line and want to conduct two main appointment types:
    * Renew or register their driver's license by their ID number or by their name.
    * Renew or register their vehicle's tag by their license plate number or by their name.
  * Each appointment takes the same amount of time.
  * There are `m` clerks behind counters to serve the drivers.
  * Drivers coming in are of two types,
    * The ones who made an appointment at home; they get priority
    * The ones who just show up without an appointment
  * Drivers are served by who has been waiting the longest

  First sketch out a solution using a box diagram and up to 4 different data structures.
  
  Then write some skeleton Java code, with empty methods that just return default values.

* Winston's office hours at 5pm in evening on Discord
