# Week 2 - Day 5
3 October 2023 - Thursday

## Morning Session

* Ask for a note taker.
  * Take notes on who people are, what they say, what they are working on, what they are blocked by or would like help on.
  * Group us into major activities, and the times each one starts.

* Arrays and Linked List
  * When to use one or the other?
  * insert operation (graph constant time versus linear time)
  * remove operation
  * getAt

* Hashtables (HashMap, Dictionary)
  * Hash function on an array
  * Fixed (deterministic) but evenly distributed
  * A perfect hashing scheme
  * Collision

* Composing Data Structures
  * Queue from a Linked List
  * Stack from an Array
  * Hashtable

* Our Goal is
  * view our issues and pull requests (how do we connect them?)
  * to Give Code Reviews and have conversations on threads
  * Merge, Commit, and Push
  * Give our Teammates the Opportunity to Practice
  * Close and Delete Private Forks / Unused Workspaces
  * To Open a Fresh GitPod and be able to run Maven, Commit, and Push
  * Split up into groups to parallelize

What are the CRUD operations for stacks and queues?
What are the 

## Notes and In-Class Transcript
From @whereismyprozac

DSA 10/5/23
UPPER-DIVISION-CS/PULL/49/FILES
Dsa-23/notes
ASPEN ARRIVED AND DELIVED A DISCORD GROUP https://discord.gg/z9282PAxLinks to an external site.
Arrays/Link lists/ when to use them-
Paul used a dry-erase marker to demonstrate an array and link lists. He declined offers from the class for a real writing utensil. 
Dom was appointed to the front to talk about arrays and link lists.
Quin and Joe chimed in. Paul Swisher added Dom to the repo.
(Duc leans against the concrete pillar, ridiculously placed in the middle of the room.)
Dominic? raised his hand and galloped to the front of the room. (There are now 6 people standing up)
Joe Grainvile JWGrainville 
In terms of operators that are faster append is faster of you don’t need to allocate appending is easier for arrays because u put it at the next spot
Dom sever abysssayl remark
Difference between the 2 arrays are fixed can be indexed anywhere in array
When you run out of room in an array you need to create a new one
Stella Parker whereismyprozac
ArrayWrapper needs a new file – it is being referenced
Reimplementing arraylist
Duc Win akinass 
Create was faster for an array in some cases. 
Mellisa Nevalla
Duc Win akinass ---
What is the ArrayWrapper?
Quin
It’s our name for arraywrapper.
Torston Speeler Evergreentor
Dominic
list would be call a vector in c++
Size, isEmpty, toArray
Dom 
Is Size faster on array because it’s already indexed?
Davi Winston Westdav
toarray might be the fastest. 
Pull Req/ Other Stuff-

## Afternoon Session

* The three-lines Yes-And Code-Improv Exercise
  * Each person adds only three lines, including comments to a file
  * They create a pull request describing what they think needs to be done next, and what the overall goal is.
  * They assign as reviewer another person, who repeats this exercise
  * Can be used to recreate a previous project e.g. "array-links-2" to work on from scratch
  * Gives all team members a chance to write different parts of the code

NOTES 10/09/23
RICHARD- we are starting projects and want to do assignments on the module 
Paul - Modules , feedback, Credits, Progress on weekly Modules,Join the DISCORD SERVER
Stello- If you get errors in your terminal 
Paul- Resource Usage & Data Analysis "Which Data structure is better?
Johhnathan Methods of Data Structures - Remove ,Get, Add, Contains, Interator, Size, "Java.util.list",Clear, ToArray, isEmpty
Usages for Data Structures are for ... GPU time & Memory , Network Bandwidth- Donald Kenuth
Killa, Mega, Giga, Terra, Peta 
- You have a function and all these calc below it , it has to ignore the functions below
Scaling : Quantum computing , Mores Law, How much Space do we need, Ongaws Law
Upper Bounding (big O) Big Omgega , Linear Functions , Constant Time 0(1)

