# Week 5 Co-Creation

Some Notes from the week 5 folder on Co-creation notes:

Excellent example of co-creation statements

State what you believe is true about computer science, that you think will pull others forward
Give an update on your project thinking and design, allows others to help you or suggest resources
Other examples:

A good place to ask questions about computer science or programming to advance your skills further
A good place to check your understanding by trying out a statement about computer science or programming.
Repeating back statements you think are important from the book, class, or online resources.
Make opinionated statements about computer science or programming ("My favorite is because of ") that you think will help other students learn more effectively, save them time, help them do more, or give them a way of thinking that you find helpful.

# Write your sentences here
I’ve learned a lot about different python libraries that focus on neurology. Neo and MNE are two that I’ve been working closely with for the past few weeks. I was having issues with pandas “4 values expected on line 19, only 3 found”, a friend helped me fix it by opening the original csv in vs code instead of the renamed version. It apparently got corrupted when I renamed the file, causing a bunch of weird issues. Now it prints.

Reflection: So far, I have learned more java syntax effectively than in the past few years combined, even when recommended to me by my old manager. I was in a group called "learning effective java" but even that didn't help.  I have also learned that there are far more data structures than I suspected previously and learned that it is important to evaluate them vs just picking the first structure that seems to get the job done. I have learned a great deal about the fundamentals which was my primary reason for taking this class. For problems, I have had problems with not having a modern enough computer to deal with the loss of GitPod access but I resolved that by spinning up an EC2 instance Linux machine. I also run into blank screen blockage when trying to sort out java and problems. I also had issues with discord but have since resolved them.

Week 5 - AI for Learning
How do you think the increasing availability and quality of AI chat and large learning models will affect the software industry in the near future? 
  
It is inevitable that AI will have an impact on the software industry. From enabling engineers to easily create more robust testing to copy-pasting incomplete, to becoming a sort of copyeditor for code writing. In my experience, one of the biggest obstacles to innovation is code rot. Engineers for years past writing code that is hard to read or in production so impossible to test changes. With ChatGPT, I could see a vital use-case where an engineer takes a bit of code and asks ChaptGPT to explain it and to add comments. You could then take those comments and update the code which is sometimes enough to take an unreadable code base to expand to a wider audience. Based on what I have seen in the classroom with ChpatGPT, I look back on those hours toiling over code and looking for answers in posts on stack overflow. The speed and accuracy of code-based questions seems very on point with the right questions. 
  
What will this mean for the future of software engineers? It is impossible to predict but if history is any prologue, then we can look back on similar instances of technology threatening a workforce. One may think of solar versus fossil fuels but that is more complex than a invention that threatened a single profession. As I recall from a radio broadcast snippet from NPR (KNKX, October 2023) a similar panic arose with the invention of the calculator. Mathematicians were alarmed that it would erase the need for them. But as the decades rolled on, this proved false where the calculator helped make better mathematicians reduce the time it took and improve the accuracy to do complex calculations. 
  
Here is an interesting listen to a podcast The Pulse: https://www.npr.org/2023/08/09/1192997798/will-a-i-take-your-job-or-make-it-better 
 

Trinity Hyre (Hiraeth_Awaits) :
Reflection: Over these past weeks, I have learned more about java then I thought I would. Algorithms have been hard to understand for me, and since I am taking the Codecademy Pro Career path for computer science, I will go over it again in the next month or so. This class, thusfar, has helped kickstart my learning journey. I am confident that when it is time for me to redo Algorithms and data structures, I will have a basic enough understanding to work through it efficiently. I personally enjoyed learning how to make our own personal project spaces within the main branch, it was very helpful to go step by step with that process.
What are you looking forward to, or could you look forward to, in the hackathon?
Possibly learning more about the world of hacking.
What are some concerns you have or challenges we might encounter in the hackathon?
I feel as if it might be difficult for me to keep up with others, as I am not that skilled or informed with hacking.
What well-defined, one-weeks' worth of difficulty piece of your final project do you hope to complete for your hackathon submission / entry?
I hope to input the Spotify data that I collected, along with my groupmates, into an excel sheet to sort it. Then start on creating a program to sort it automatically.
What resources, work, or tools (software or otherwise) do you think all of us will need to succeed in the hackathon, that we can prepare in advance?
Caffiene and sleep. 
How will you judge whether the week was a successful experience or not?
If I at least tried to complete something, wrong or right, I will know I at least tried my best; therefore succeeding.


Jonathan Rodriguez (JonR2002): Increasing the availability and quality of AI chat could provide signficant advancement for the software industry. These developments could bring about a range of changes, such as the automation of customer support, the creation of more user-friendly interfaces, content generation, tailored user experiences, enhanced data analysis, and improvements in software development processes. AI will also find applications in fields like security, healthcare, education, and entertainment. While these advancements could offer clear benefits in terms of efficiency and personalization, they also introduce challenges, including ethical concerns, regulatory considerations, and the potential for workforce displacement. To fully leverage the capabilities of AI models, the software industry must address these issues and invest in ongoing education for its workforce. 
I am also very excited for the hackathon in a couple of weeks because of the oppurtunites that can arise from this. I am also very worried because this is also my first hackathon/coding competition or any of the sorts. I dont know what to expect apart from what I have heard from my other fellow classmates. Im hoping that the hackathon can harden my programming and coneptual computer science skills as well as providing concise and adoptable methodologies. 

Stella Parker (whereismyprozac):
In the near future I think chat won’t affect the software industry in a negative way, it is still in its very early stages despite being so advanced. Right now, it feels like chat will become another tool just like google but better. It’s even creating more jobs; we’ll need people to engineer and test prompts and always oil the machine. The image generating ai is what I am more worried about. Even though it’s still mediocre, in a few years it will become too powerful. We are already struggling in the age of conspiracies and disinformation, image generating ai will just make everything much, much worse. We are already in a pit of despair that is filling up faster than we can recognize and it’s probably too late.
To avoid boredom, I chose my own language to write my project in. It feels more overwhelming to work with others sometimes. I hate explaining what I want from projects to other people and there’s no guarantee that they will know how to do what you are trying to accomplish. As for in class work, I wish there were a lot more written instruction, or any at all. Some people have issues processing auditory information and it sucks to have to guess or ask the person next to you who also doesn’t know what’s going on because the projector is impossible to see and there are no written instructions. 
I am not looking forward to the hackathon and I don’t have any concerns about it. I’ll probably submit my print results. The entire internet will be used for the hackathon. This week will be a success when it ends, and I haven’t been hit by a car.

Nathan Deanon(ndeanon25):
      The increase of availability and quality of AI chat will help speed up our technological advances. AI does open many different outlets for people if used right. While people do not have to think of the technical aspect of coding, developers can focus more on bigger picture aspects like how the code works, and what can be improved. This will come with many downfalls like I believe many entry level jobs like doing SQL database, will be harder to find since many companies will just use AI for these. In retrospect, this has happened multiple times throughout history. It is about adapting to the directory of where the software industry is headed. Workers in the software industry will have to update their skills and be able integrate AI into their work. This is even stated by IBM that, “AI will not completely replace humans, but those who use AI will replace those who do not.” AI will become an important tool that will be needed to work in this industry. This shift will disrupt the current job flow, it will create multiple new jobs. It is even predicted by the World Economic Forum that AI and automation “will disrupt 85 million jobs globally by 2025, creating 97 million new roles.” It will force humans and machines to work together but however widened the skill gap with the likeliness of “44% of workers needing reskilling by 2028”. 
      For my learning efforts to be on the right level of engagement, there have been multiple guidelines I have set for myself. It is easier to just copy and paste the code that ChatGPT writes down or some code I find online, but I want to be able to understand and see how the code functions in my head. I must be able to visualize how this certain data structure is used or how this algorithm calculates an answer. I try to find flow but creating the balance that the article talks about.  The balance between a challenge and my skill. I enjoy understanding algorithms and problem solving these challenges, but there are points where it feels out of my skill reach. This is the point where I feel overwhelmed and need to take a step back. I try to avoid copying and pasting implementations of methods, so I just start from scratch and build it up slowly. That is my philosophy has been lately, I am moving at my own pace and trying to break everything down into steps. This helps with seeing how the big picture.   
Sources: 
https://dig.watch/updates/ai-wont-replace-people-but-people-who-use-ai-will-replace-people-who-dont-ibms-report#:~:text=According%20to%20IBM%2C%20AI%20will,models%20and%20transform%20employees'%20work 
https://alessiobresciani.com/productivity/finding-flow-at-work-20-tips-to-overcoming-overwhelm-eliminating-boredom/  

Juniper Campbell (Lucretian)
	The spreading of AI use an the development of job-specific AI will be, of course, disruptive. I am however cautious of any general narrative or assumption on what forms this disruption will take. Losses of jobs are not just an economic question but a political question and there will be coming tension surrounding potential regulations of the use of AI to reduce jobs. While many see AI as an obvious means to increase the productivity and profitability of a company I would not be so confident particularly in the long run. In the short run the value of companies seemingly increased by AI will likely be due to an increase in the value of their stocks due to the belief that AI will result in greater profitability. What interests me more is the disruption of public resources such as education and social services, particulalry with the debates currently surround government spending I have little doubt that there is much effort, however slow, to automate many gov service jobs, something that does not entail any competitive risks. It is important for people to recognize the development of AI and its impending social effects as not confined to the alien, inaccesible realm of "the economy" or the state but as a decisevly political issue that engenders the greater need to develop independent political structures by which we can capture lines of technological flight and regulate them towards human interests. As with every development of technological autonomation, the full implementation of its potentials will not be seen in an era of high consumption to investment ratios for the investor class, and will not move us any closer to actually living a life of less toil unless there are structures built to change our organization of time towards free-time. Beyond a few key constraints, our organization of the basic resource of time is arbitrary to different generative codes of production teleologies(purposes), better technology changes potentials and probabilities but does not nessecitate any benefit for humanity. 

**Jonah Eadie**
I think that increasing availability to AI chat using large language models will eventually, as it likely will in most fields which depend on intellectual labor, lead to the automation of much of the work currently done by developers and ultimately in a reduction of available engineering jobs. Labor is often one of the largest expenses for most companies, and given the oppurtunity many would likely be forced by market pressures to lay off engineers and hand their workload over to a single engineer with access to powerful AI tools. On the one hand, the automation of software development may open doors for amateurs and others unconnected to large projects to write more complicated and extensive code than they would otherwise be capable. On the other, a severe reduction of available jobs in the field will jeaprodize many careers and could possibly lead to wide-reaching consequences for the economy and jobs market.

I think that adopting a better time-management system for completing class assignments and readings will help me absorb more of my class's materials and challenge me to engage deeper in the topics we cover in class. While I'm good at learning things on my own, I often run into trouble when I have to learn according to a carriculum and navigate around submission deadlines. This isn't a philosophy per se, but rather a necessary prerequisite to employing any philosophy to assist my learning as a part of an Evergreen program.

Reflection: Since the beginning of the quarter, I've wanted to improve my own workflow for workinng on and submitting files and projects to the monorepo. So far, I've defaulted to using Gitpod because it's automatically integrated with my GitHub account, but I'd rather be able to work on my own machine and local branch using the development environment I'm used to using for my own personal projects. Over break I want to work on integrating my class GitHub account into my own environment so that I can work on assignments without needing to rely on GitPod and VSCode.
 

#6 Hackerthon prelim-notes:
	• What are you looking forward to, or could you look forward to, in the hackathon?
		○ Looking forward to experiencing a hackathon in a different way.
		○ Looking forward to some solid coding session which is one of my fav things
	• What are some concerns you have or challenges we might encounter in the hackathon?
		○ Concerns is possibly getting distracted or going down a rabbit hole
	• What well-defined, one-weeks' worth of difficulty piece of your final project do you hope to complete for your hackathon submission / entry?
		○ Building the data structure and the methods to answer our questions
	• What resources, work, or tools (software or otherwise) do you think all of us will need to succeed in the hackathon, that we can prepare in advance?
		○ Coffee and lots of it. Maybe a set of benchmarks, make sure everyone is up to speed and have a good idea where to save their work. Build before and after each edit or break, save frequently if making progress.
	• How will you judge whether the week was a successful experience or not?
		○ I would like to complete the 2 of 3 major benchmarks and have a working query tool by the end. Already have data and have a working csv reader that prints to the console.

                                                                                    --- End of my Sentences ---

**Faulkdf's week5 notes**

Something that I believe is true about computer science, is that it is a forever growing industry. Our use of technology always seems to be increasing, and tech engineers (both software and hardware) seem to be constantly pushing the boundaries of whats possible. 
The biggest thing that I think is about to maybe shock the industry is the development of useful “AI” technology. I don’t necessarily think it will be a bad thing, however. The internet as a whole went thought a phase of being new and distrusted, and so far it has become arguably the most influential “invention” of the last 100 years. Every product when its new tends to follow a “[sigmoid curve](https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:1284/0*9Va78m-Wanjp8lOF)” for product adoption. The internet, as a whole, is sort of at the top of the curve right now, there is innovation, but not a big boom like there was in the late 1990s/early 2000s. AI technology I believe is closer to the critical point at the bottom of the curve. I believe we are about to see a rapid amount of innovation, and it will change how we interact with technology as a whole. 

**Hackathon Notes:**

1. I’m looking forward to just participating in the hackathon! I’ve never done one before
2. Main concerns is that I wont be “up to snuff” compared to everyone else. I don’t know what to expect, and I really am not as strong in my programming as I’d like to be. 
3. Hopefully something that is good at processing large amounts of data in .json files. 
4. I will certainly be relying on my classmates, as well as documentation from this class. chatGPT is always helpful too if I get stuck. (Especially for basic functionality cheat sheets)
5. I am not sure. I have a hard time judging myself based on no other input. I suppose I should do a similar amount of work to everyone else in the class. 

DavidDunston 
I know a lot about computers but the girl the computer science is ever changing and evolving especially due to the expansion of technology in general what was theory becomes practice and most theories become facts after a short amount of time just because the good or bad data isn't good or bad outcomes does not mean it's not qualitative to the greater theory of the science altogether. As far as AIM goes I am excited to see where it can help people develop their thoughts and concepts into concise ideas and helping the collaborative efforts that while I was to further grow our productivity in every industry and every market I'm not a frayed of disruptive in the current markets hopefully we can put essence. Did you need list greed of capital ism and work more with efforts to bring people into a balance of some kind. I learned a lot through hackathon and mostly just sit being that there's a lot of room for growth and opportunity opportunities and you don't have to start big you can start small one of the things I loved about the hackathon is that we were able to see just how quasi and down to earth a lot of the recruiters and people who work in tech are it's not some big scary place where people don't like to collaborate it's actually the opposite or collaboration is what drives the industry.
