# Week 10
4 Dec 2023 - Monday

## Morning Session

### This Week (Week 10)

* No Zoom class on Tuesday and Thursday, please come in-person to participate.
* I'll help you bring your final project to a runnable / usable state for each other
  * I'll give you a checklist of steps I think you can do before final presentation Thursday

* Screencast recordings with asciinema
  * in a fresh GitPod workspace, type `asciinema rec`
  * Type commands to run your project
  * `exit` and then up load.
  * Embed the given `.svg` into your README.md markdown file.

* Thursday you'll present for each other (2 minutes) and demo on school computers
  * moderated by TAs (Quinn in the morning, Winston in the afternoon)
  * I'll start and end each session and record it, but I won't be there.  Your job will be to communicate with your classmates.

### Next Week (Week 11)

* 1:1 evaluation meetings, 30 minutes, schedule with me on Canvas
* Be prepared to discuss any code you've submitted on Hackerrank or into GitHub
  * It's okay if you used AI chat to learn the material, but you should be able to explain your understanding without AI

### Licensing

Suggestion

* We'll make the repository private, generated website public [I'll ask for help from TAs on this]
* Open source to other Evergreen students while they are learning at school, with attribution
* Closed source to the outside world
* You can add me as a read-only collaborator to your private GitHub repository if you'd like it to be considered @learner-long-life

### Quiz

* In-class 7-question quiz tomorrow morning (not graded), you can search this repository, no AI chat.
* Merge your PRs into `main` before then if you want to be able to search them.

## Afternoon Session

Continue working on Hackerrank problems.

You can choose graph problems if you've submitted a solution to Prim's algorithm for minimum spanning tree.
